The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Bunnikins-Bunnies and the moon king
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Bunnikins-Bunnies and the moon king


Author: Edith B. Davidson

Illustrator: Clara E. Atwood

Release date: February 13, 2024 [eBook #72950]

Language: English

Original publication: Boston: Little, Brown, and Company, 1912

Credits: Bob Taylor, Aaron Adrignola and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BUNNIKINS-BUNNIES AND THE MOON KING ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_




[Illustration: The Bunnikins-Bunnies _and_ The Moon King]

[Illustration: Bunnies in sled]




  THE
  BUNNIKINS-BUNNIES
  AND THE MOON KING

  _By_
  EDITH B. DAVIDSON

  AUTHOR OF “NIBBLES POPPELTY-POPPETT,” “THE
  BUNNIKINS-BUNNIES IN CAMP,” ETC.

  _With Illustrations by_

  CLARA E. ATWOOD

  [Illustration: Decoration]

  BOSTON
  LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY
  1912




  COPYRIGHT, 1912,
  BY LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY.

  _All rights reserved._

  PUBLISHED, SEPTEMBER, 1912.

[Illustration: Decoration]




[Illustration:

  TO DEAR
  BARBARA

  WITH THE
  COMPLIMENTS
  OF HER FRIEND
  MR. BUNNIKINS-BUNNY
]

[Illustration: Bunny holding his head]




[Illustration: _A Change of Air_

_Chapter I_]


One day Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny came home feeling very much out of sorts.
He had a headache, a toothache, and the shivery-shivers all over.

Mrs. Bunny gave him some cayenne pepper tea, and then put him to bed
well wrapped up in blankets, and with a hot-water bottle to keep his
toe-toes warm. Very funny he looked with his long ears sticking out of
his blue-and-white nightcap.

[Illustration: Bunnies playing on floor]

In the afternoon, his friend, Mr. Gray-Squirrel, dropped in to see him,
and said at once: “What you need is a change of air, and I know just
the thing for you to do; come for a trip to the Moon with me in my new
airship. You’ll have plenty of fresh air, and not too much heat, unless
we happen to fall into the Sun.”

“Oh, no, no!” cried poor Mrs. Bunnikins-Bunny, almost in tears. “I
simply cannot let Mr. Bunnikins go sailing in the air. He would surely
fall out of the ship, or get lost in the clouds, and I should never see
him any more.”

But Mr. Bunnikins liked the idea, and at once set his heart on going.
He talked so much about it, that at last Mrs. Bunny consented, if she
and the children might go too, so that they could all fall out of the
airship together.

As Mr. Gray-Squirrel had told them that the journey would be very cold,
Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny had a great time buying ulsters and overshoes, caps
and mittens. Most of his lovely hats he decided to leave at home, as he
was afraid they might be blown away.

[Illustration: Bunnies in an airplane]

[Illustration: B-B’s flat hat—]

By the end of a week, they were all ready to start, Bobtail and
Rosamund, Ruddy and Chippie having scarcely slept for nights from
excitement.

The airship was most comfortably arranged with nice little cabins in
which to eat and sleep, and the sides were so high that no one could
possibly fall over the edge.

Mr. Gray-Squirrel had hired Captain Hawk to steer the airship by day,
and Admiral Owl to keep a careful lookout at night. The children were
rather afraid of Captain Hawk with his bright eyes and sharp beak, but
they all loved to talk to old Admiral Owl, although he was always very
sleepy when the sun was shining.

[Illustration: Owl, bunny, squirrel]




[Illustration: _Above the Clouds_

_Chapter II_]


One fine morning away they flew, circling round and round, up and up,
until the earth lay far below. Numbers of strange birds flew about
them, and one big gray one, with long feathery ears and a huge beak,
frightened little Rosamund dreadfully, by perching on the airship close
beside her. Day after day, they sailed past beautiful stars and
planets, until one morning they came to a very large cluster of star
islands, which were thickly covered with herds of snow-white cows.

[Illustration: Three cows]

“Those cows belong to the King of the Moon,” said Captain Hawk, “and
they give so much milk that the islands are called The Milky Way. We
are not far from the Moon now.”

That same day, towards evening, they came to a great round island
entirely made of rocks and ice.

“Let’s not stop here,” said Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny with a shiver. “It is
so cold that I think the tip of my left ear is frozen.”

[Illustration: Bunny walking]

“But this is the Island of the Moon,” exclaimed Admiral Owl, blinking
his round eyes.

“Oh, how I wish that I had stayed at home,” groaned poor Mr. Bunnikins.
“Mrs. Bunny did not want to come anyhow, and now we shall all freeze
into icicles. Oh dear! Oh dear!”

“Never mind,” said his kind little wife. “We will wrap up warmly, and
perhaps we shall have some sleighing.”

Sure enough, when they landed, they found a nice sleigh, drawn by four
reindeer, ready to carry them to the hotel. In spite, however, of
wearing two ulsters, fur-lined overshoes, a big muff, and a fur cap
tied down under his chin, Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny’s whiskers, which were
all you could see of him, fairly shook with the cold.

[Illustration: Cold bunnies]

The hotel was all made of ice, so that everybody outside could see
inside, and everybody inside could see outside.

[Illustration: Group of bunnies]

It was well heated, and there were warm carpets on the floors, but Mr.
Bunnikins would not be comforted. He sat in a big arm-chair close to
the fire, with his toe-toes drawn up under him, shivering and groaning.

[Illustration: Cold bunny]

They had a very queer supper of dried potato-pie, dried apple
dumpling, and dried lettuce and carrot-cake, for as nothing grows on
the cold Island of the Moon, everything to eat has to be brought a long
distance in airships, and it all dries up on the way.

[Illustration: Bunny eating]




[Illustration: _The Island of the Moon_

_Chapter III_]


As Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny was very anxious to see the Moon King and his
beautiful Palace, they all started out the next morning to visit him.
At first they were told that they could not see the King, as he slept
all day and was very busy all night, but finally they were invited to
come to the Palace that evening, at eight o’clock.

[Illustration: Girl crying]

They spent the rest of the day sleighing and seeing the island. The
houses were all made of ice, and there were no trees, no flowers, not
even a blade of grass. The people were so huge that they terrified the
children, and Rosamund kept tight hold of her father’s paw.

[Illustration: Girl grabbing bunny]

[Illustration: Bunny in suit]

No Bunnies or Squirrels had ever been seen in the Moon before, and the
people admired them very much. One little giant girl cried tears as big
as dollars, because she could not keep Rosamund for a plaything, and
when she picked her up in her big hands to pet her, the poor little
bunny was frightened almost to death. As soon as he had eaten his
supper, Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny hurried off to dress for the Moon King’s
Party. He tried one thing and then another, until poor Mrs. Bunnikins
was quite tired out trying to help him, and thought he never would be
ready in time. At last he decided to wear a beautiful blue velvet suit
embroidered in gold, and a very fine green and white hat all trimmed
with ostrich feathers. To keep himself warm, he had a velvet cape
lined with fur, and, as a finishing touch, he wore a little gold sword.
Mrs. Bunnikins advised him not to, as she was afraid it would be in his
way, but Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny insisted that a sword was the proper thing
to wear at Court.

Bobtail and Ruddy Squirrel had tied bright red bows on themselves
wherever they could find a place, and Rosamund shouted with laughter
whenever she looked at them.




[Illustration: _The Palace of the Moon King_

_Chapter IV_]


The Palace was made entirely of blocks of ice most beautifully carved,
the walls being lined with silk, so that nobody could look in. It was
brilliantly lighted, and on each of the broad steps stood a giant
soldier, in scarlet and gold uniform.

Two big footmen led the Bunnikins-Bunnies and the Gray-Squirrels
through one grand room after another, until they came to a great silver
door, on which one of the footmen knocked twice with a silver wand. As
the door slowly opened, the Bunnikins-Bunnies and the Gray-Squirrels
were so dazzled by the flood of light, that for a moment they all
covered their faces with their paws. Then they looked up and saw the
most wonderful room.

It was made of purest white ice, the floors being covered with great
white rugs, and the walls with silvery silk. The furniture was of ivory
inlaid with silver, and in every corner stood a tall silver vase full
of moon flowers, which perfumed the air.

[Illustration: Moon in blanket]

At one end of the great room was a silver throne, on which was seated a
gigantic figure clad in a misty white garment, from which the silvery
moonbeams streamed out in every direction, so that the whole room was
filled with a shimmering light.

In front of the King was a great round window through which he was
intently gazing. His head was quite bald, his cheeks were fat, he had a
big mouth, and his eyes were very large and round. As he turned with a
pleasant smile to greet the Bunnikins-Bunnies and the Gray-Squirrels,
they were very much astonished to recognize the Man in the Moon, whom
they had so often seen, sitting high up in the sky.

“Draw the cloud curtain,” he said to one of the footmen, who at once
pulled a heavy gray curtain across the great window. Then in a very
gentle voice for such a huge being, he added: “Come forward my little
people, I am very glad to see you.”

[Illustration: Decoration]




[Illustration: _The King of the Moon_

_Chapter V_]


As they came forward Mr. Gray-Squirrel made a polite bow, and Mrs.
Bunny and Mrs. Squirrel made nice little courtesies, but poor Mr.
Bunnikins-Bunny, in the middle of a most elegant bow, got his legs so
twisted up with his sword, that he turned a complete somersault right
into the Moon King’s lap!

[Illustration: Bunny doing a somersault]

“Never mind,” said the King, as he kindly helped him to his feet,
“accidents _will_ happen. Have a piece of cheese?”

On the broad arm of the King’s throne was a plate full of green cheese,
of which he took a large piece himself, after offering it to the
Bunnies and the Squirrels.

“Do you make your own cheese?” asked Mrs. Bunnikins-Bunny, as she
tasted it.

“It is made for me in the Milky Way,” replied the Moon King. “No cows
have been allowed in the Moon, since a very rude one jumped right over
my head many years ago.”

Just then there was a loud squeal of terror from the other end of the
room. Bobtail had found the queer cheese so horrid, that he simply
_could not_ eat it. He had wandered off, hoping to find some dark
corner in which to hide it, and had stumbled into a mouse trap, and
been caught by the leg.

[Illustration: Bunny caught in a mouse trap]

“Dear! Dear!” said the King, as they all ran to help poor Bobtail. “I
am so sorry, but you see mice like cheese almost as much as I do, and
so I have to set traps everywhere. Now you shall have a peep from my
Look-Out-Window,” he continued, taking Bobtail by the paw.

Far, far below they could see the great round earth looking like a
little ball, but it made them all so dizzy, that they did not look very
long.

“Do you never get sleepy?” asked Mrs. Gray-Squirrel.

“Not very often,” answered the Moon King. “There are times when I can
watch with one eye, and then I have taught the other eye to go to
sleep.”

“I thought you had a dog?” said Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny.

[Illustration: Small dog]

“I did have a very fine yellow dog, but alas, I lost him long ago,”
and the King, with a sigh, wiped away a tear. “His name was Ebenezer,
but we called him Sneezer for short, because he was so fond of mouse
patties flavored with pepper, which made him sneeze. He was always
chasing cats. One day he heard one miaow, and jumping on the ledge of
my Great Window, he slipped and fell out, I don’t know where.

[Illustration: Dog chasing a cat]

“Since then, however, so many yellow dogs have been seen on the Island
of Sirius, that it is now called the Dog Star, and I believe that
Sneezer landed there.”

[Illustration: Bunny falling]

While the King had been talking, the children had crept behind the
cloud curtain to try and see the Dog Star. Bobtail had leaned out
so far that he lost his balance, and would have surely gone to join
Sneezer, had not one of the King’s footmen grabbed him by his short
tail.

As it was now late, the Bunnikins-Bunnies and the Gray-Squirrels,
after thanking the King for his kindness, said good-by, and the cloud
curtain being drawn back, the King of the Moon gazed down once more
upon the sleeping earth.

[Illustration: Decoration]




[Illustration: _The Island of Mars_

  _Chapter
  VI_
]


Early next morning, as soon as the sun had risen and the King of the
Moon had gone to bed, the Bunnikins-Bunnies and the Gray-Squirrels went
on board the airship, and sailed off toward the Island of Mars. The
children begged Captain Hawk to stop at the Dog Star and see Sneezer,
but neither Mr. Bunnikins nor Mr. Gray-Squirrel was willing to, as they
were both very much afraid of dogs.

[Illustration: Bunny and squirrel holding hands]

After several days of cloud fogs and contrary winds, they arrived
at the great Island of Mars. As they came near the shore, they were
astonished to see two squatty little men walking about on their heads
with their heels in the air. No sooner had Bobtail and Ruddy Squirrel
landed, than they scampered off to look at the funny men. When they
came near them, however, they were walking on their feet. They told
Bobtail that they could walk as easily on one end as the other, and so
by changing they never were tired.

[Illustration: Bunnies talking to a boy]

When Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny asked the way to the nearest town, the little
men offered to go with them, as it was not far off. The village looked
very pretty as they approached, surrounded by fruit trees and gardens
of flowers, but the houses seemed most peculiar. The doors were at the
top of the houses, the chimneys smoked close to the ground, and the
people went into their homes by an outside staircase. One of the little
men told Mr. Gray-Squirrel that all the houses in Mars were built that
way, and he had never seen any other kind.

[Illustration: Upside-down house]

When they arrived at the hotel, they were escorted to the front door by
the landlord, who hopped up the outside staircase before them on his
head. They went into a big hall at the top of the house, from which a
broad staircase led downstairs to the upstairs rooms.

[Illustration: Bunny on stairs]




[Illustration: _The Upside-Down House_

_Chapter VII_]


When the Bunnikins-Bunnies and the Gray-Squirrels saw their bedrooms,
they did not know what to do. The chandeliers stood up from the floors,
and in the corners were little stairways leading up to the ceilings on
which all the furniture was nicely arranged.

Mrs. Bunny wondered how she should ever keep the children from falling
out of bed, while Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny sat down on a corner of the
chandelier, and held his bewildered head between his front paws.

“If we stay here long,” said he, “I shall go crazy, and you will have
to keep me in a cage.”

Meanwhile, the children were racing up and down the little stairways
and trying the beds and chairs on the ceiling. It was quite easy for
Ruddy and Chippy Gray-Squirrel to hang on, but it was very difficult
for Bobtail and Rosamund Bunny, and it ended by Bobtail’s suddenly
falling right on top of his father, who thought that the furniture was
coming down, and was scared out of his wits. Bobtail was well scolded,
and after that he and Rosamund were forbidden to climb on the ceiling.

[Illustration: Bunny falls onto his father]

The landlord was quite hurt that they did not like his fine rooms, but
to please them, he at last promised to put some beds on _his ceiling_,
which they called a floor.

After a good dinner, they went out to walk, and everywhere they saw the
most curious sights. All the houses and shops were built upside down,
and many of the people walked that way.

They were good-natured, fat little dwarfs, with big heads, long black
hair, and small, bright eyes. They wore very gay clothes,—red, blue,
and yellow being their favorite colors,—and Mr. Bunnikins’s fine hat
and beautiful clothes were immensely admired. In fact the people
crowded so closely about the Gray-Squirrels and the Bunnikins-Bunnies
and admired them so much, that at last Mr. Bunnikins became frightened,
and hurried them all back to the hotel.

[Illustration: Group of animals]

[Illustration: Bunny with chair on ceiling]




[Illustration: _Back to Earth_

  _Chapter VIII_
]


In the middle of the night, Mr. Gray-Squirrel woke up to find Mr.
Bunnikins-Bunny in his blue-and-white nightcap, standing by his
bedside, with a lighted candle in his paw.

“What is the matter?” asked Mr. Gray-Squirrel, sitting up in bed.

“Oh dear me!” groaned poor Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny, “I can’t go to sleep,
for every time that I do, I dream that the furniture is falling off the
ceiling, or that I am walking on my head. Would you be willing to leave
this awful place before breakfast?”

“Yes, indeed,” replied Mr. Gray-Squirrel; “I am ready to go whenever
you are.”

“Besides,” continued Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny, “I think that the people here
are becoming much too fond of us, and if we stay any longer, they may
not let us go away at all. I am sure that I don’t wish to spend the
rest of my life walking on my head in an upside-down house.”

[Illustration: Bunny in bed]

They waked up Mrs. Bunny, Mrs. Gray-Squirrel, and the children as soon
as it was light, and creeping quietly up the big staircase, they
stole out of the house.

[Illustration: Group of animals]

At each street corner, Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny had a fresh scare, but they
met no one, and before the people were stirring in the village, they
were safely on board the airship.

“If you don’t mind, I would rather not stop at any more islands,” said
Mr. Bunnikins. “In fact, I think I should like to go home.”

Mr. Gray-Squirrel was quite willing, so down they went, circling round
and round, lower and lower, until at the end of the second day they
were close to the Earth.

[Illustration: Bunny climbing a ladder]

What a sigh of relief Mr. Bunnikins-Bunny gave as he set his foot once
more on familiar ground!

[Illustration: Bunny and squirrel shaking hands]

As they said good-by, he thanked Mr. Gray-Squirrel warmly, and assured
him that he had had a most wonderful trip. But as they walked towards
home, he said to Mrs. Bunnikins: “Well, my dear, I have always thought
that I should like to be a bird and fly in the air; but now, I am quite
contented to be myself, and stay on the good old solid Earth!”

[Illustration: Bunny running]




        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BUNNIKINS-BUNNIES AND THE MOON KING ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


